if you live on the east coast of the
United States you spent the last 17
years of your life walking eating and
sleeping above a dormant army of insects
these are the cicadas every 17 years
billions of them emerge from the ground
to do three things
molt mate and die there are 15 different
broods of cicadas out there grouped by
when they'll emerge from the ground some
of these broods are on a thirteen year
cycle others are on a seventeen year
clock either way the cicadas live
underground for most of their lives
feeding on the juices of plant roots
when it's time to emerge the adults will
begin to burrow their way out of the
ground and up to the surface where they
will live for just a few weeks during
these weeks though everybody will note
that cicadas have arrived there will be
billions of them and they're out male
cicadas band together to call for female
mates and their collective chorus can
reach up to 100 decibels as loud as a
chainsaw in fact if you happen to be
using a chainsaw or lawnmower male
cicadas will flock to you thinking that
you're one of them now like most things
in nature the cicadas don't arrive
without a posse
there are all sorts of awesome and gross
predators and parasites that come along
with the buzzing bugs take a fungus
massive spora for example this little
white fungus buries itself in the
cicadas abdomen it eats the bug alive
leaving behind its spores when those
spores rupture they burst out of the
still alive cicada turning the bug into
a flying salt shaker of death raining
spores down upon its unsuspecting cicada
neighbors but while we know pretty
precisely when the cicadas will arrive
and fade away we're still not totally
certain of why there are certain
advantages to having your entire species
emerge at once of course the sheer
number of cicadas coming out of the
ground is so overwhelming to predators
it is essentially guaranteed that a few
bugs will survive and reproduce and
since the quedas emerge every 13 or 17
years longer than the lifespan of many
of their predators the animals that eat
them don't learn to depend on their
availability
but why 13 and 17 years instead of 16 or
18 or 12 well that part no one really
knows it's possible the number just
happened by chance or perhaps the Kate
is really love prime numbers eventually
the cicadas will mate and slowly die off
their call fading into the distance the
eggs that they lay will begin the cycle
again
they're cicada babies burrowing into the
earth feeding on plant juice and waiting
for their turn to darken the skies and
fill the air with their songs in 17
years they'll be ready will you